What is the point of Ms. Moore’s lesson? Why does Sylvia resist it?
The point of Ms. Moore’s lesson is to illustrate to the children the wealth is disproportionately distributed in the society and encourage them to be proactive to change their situation. 
Ms. Moore takes the children to the FAO Schwarz Toy Store in a fancier part of the town. They observe items clearly priced for people in a significantly higher wealth gap. The purpose of this was that the children begin to contemplate why some people could afford to pay what they perceived as outstanding prices for seemingly unnecessary items, where that money could provide them food for a whole year. In the story, Ms. Moore says “Where we are is who we are. . . But it don’t necessarily have to be that way”. From this the reader can infer that the lesson from the story as well as Ms. Moore’s other lessons are not just for the children to experience and contemplate, but to encourage them to take action to change their circumstance.
There can be many ways to interpret the reasons why Sylvia resists her lessons, but in my opinion, I believe she resists the lesson because she is naive and contemptuous. From the beginning we know she has a negative opinion about people. She describes most people as “old and stupid or young and foolish” With this notion, it’s not surprising that she has at least some resistance to lessons from Ms. Moore. Furthermore, in many ways Sylvia views Ms. Moore as an outsider mainly because she is educated; a quality not many people she knows has. This might also contribute to her resistance

Describe the relationship between Sugar and Sylvia. What is Sugar's function in the story?
Firstly, it’s important to know that they are cousins and therefore have likely known each other for all or most of their lives. From the beginning of the story, we are given a sense of the relation between Sylvia and Sugar. Sylvia describes everyone as either stupid or foolish but says “me and Sugar were the only ones just right” From this, we can conclude at the very least that Sugar is very special to Sylvia because she sees her differently than any other person. We can infer from the quote “the time me and Sugar crashed into the Catholic church on a dare” that their personalities complement each other as they are both mischievous and likely encourage each other to be this way.
Sugar’s function in this story comes into play near the end of the story when Ms. Moore asks for the children’s opinion about F.A.O. Here Sugar speaks up and clearly understands Ms. Moore’s lesson and seeks to be engaged but Sylvia steps on her foot to signal her to stop. Despite this Sugar continues to share her opinion. From this we can infer that Sugar’s purpose in the story is to challenge Sylvia herself to finally completely embrace the Ms. Moore’s lesson where before Sylvia shrugged it off.

What does the last line of the story suggest?
At the beginning of the field trip, Sylvia is completely closed of to whatever Ms. Moore has to say and even says she would rather be somewhere else. But as the story progresses, we see Sylvia begin to open up. Firstly, we can see she begins to understand the inequality and expresses her anger when she says, “I sure want to punch somebody in the mouth”. Next, where before, she would never ask Ms. Moore a question, she asks “Watcha bring us here for, Miss Moore?” which signifies that she is actually seeking some understanding. We continuously witness her open up to the message which leads up to the last line. The last line of the story “But ain’t nobody gonna beat me at nuthin.” suggests that Sylvia finally understands her situation and is finally motivated to take action. The moral of the story is that in order to change, one must first realize the situation they are in. Now that Sylvia understands this, and that there are better conditions out there she can now do her best to make sure that no one bests her.

In a paragraph or two, characterize the narrator. Do not summarize the story.  Assume that your reader is familiar with it but support your characterization by some references to episodes in the story and perhaps by a few brief quotations.
The narrator of this story is Sylvia, a rebellious young girl with a negative and critical view towards most people except her cousin Suga. Due to this, along with the fact that she is strong willed and competitive, she is difficult to teach. In fact, she resents Ms. More for trying to teach her even though Ms. Moore seems to have nothing but good intentions.
Sylvia possesses good analytical skills. Firstly, we see she is able to understand the way her family members take advantage of Aunt Gretchen when she says “. Specially Aunt Gretchen. She was the main gofer in the family. You got some ole dumb shit foolishness you want somebody to go for, you send for Aunt Gretchen.” Furthermore, she says, “I’m going to the West End and then over to the Drive to think this day through.” This indicates that she wants to critically think about the day and draw her own conclusions instead of just repeating what Ms. Moore wants to hear.
Despite her stealing money from Ms. Moore, we can tell Sylvia possesses a strong sense of justice. She is able to grasp the lesson on a deeper emotional level than the others as shown by her anger when she says, “I sure want to punch somebody in the mouth”. Her sense of justice is also shown when she is unable to prank the worshipers in the Catholic Church. She says, “I just couldn’t go through with the plan” This shows what even though she is wild, rebellious, and likes to take control of her life, deep down she has a good sense of right and wrong. 
